>> Mike North: Let's switch
to our back-end here.
So where we're going to go
is in our server package.
We're going to go into source entities.
We've got a location here which
matches what we already have described
in our location.
We kinda ended up undoing
our change there.
So this file hasn't been touched.
But we need a monthly temperature range
and we'll need a temperature value object.
So let's start from the bottom up.
So we've got in values,
we call this monthly temperature-range.ts.
We'll grab our RGB color and
we'll use that as our starting point.
And what we can do here is say,
monthly temperature range.
We want something that
matches if we wanted to.
We have to think about whether we want
something that matches the representation
in the types package.
We have the option of persisting this
in our database in a way that's a bit
different from how it's
exposed through our API, but
I don't really see a need for
that in this case.
Let's see if we can keep it simple.
Now I'm running into this problem where
the types package is not resolving here.
Let's see.
Import from peashoot types.
Obviously you have to alias it.
I was just saying the value is never read,
that's fine.
One last step here we have a single entry
point for this peashoot types package.
If we were to click on this, you can
see we export a bunch of stuff here and
we haven't introduced monthly
temperature range type js.
If we hover over that,
we can see this resolves and
we also have to worry about the value
objects temperature type js.
We did this and
then we did this one up here.
So this ensures that this package
exports the files that we just created.
Where we left off is if we
look at the changes that we've
made first in our types,
we declared this monthly
temperature range schema and
we exported the type for it.
We've got the month, the min, and the max.
We had a location here.
I removed it for now and
we're going to see why.
And in the value objects,
you can see we've got like,
basically we've articulated this shape.
Value is a number and
the unit is Fahrenheit.
And then we made sure to export these
two newly created modules from our
types package.
Now we're turning our focus
back to the server side.
And so what we've done here is.
I've got an empty class here and
we're getting ready to
articulate this database entity.
If we remember from the slide
with going through type orm,
we have to add entity to this.
And there are options you could pass here.
You could say,
I want to describe the table,
the name of the table that'll
be created in the database.
But we're not going to.
No need to get fancy here.
Now it's time for us to define columns.
I've actually borrowed our interface
from that types package so
that in this case we're going
to keep this well aligned.
Like when this object is serialized into
an API response, or when we're working
with it in our business logic, or
when we're storing it in the database,
it's all the same representation for
a simple object like this,
at least when you first start working
with it, you often start out this way.
Inevitably you make breaking changes
internally because you need something
about your database representation to
change and you can separate these things.
But that is what this represents.
We're linking the API representation and
our server representation of this concept.
Just refreshing ourselves
on what defines this.
We've got month and min and max.
Here we go.
We've got a column and month.
We're going to use the definite assignment
operator here because our orm will take
care of making sure that this exists
whenever we load it from the database.
And just so if we didn't have this,
you would see TypeScript complaining that,
look, if you create a new
instance of this thing,
I have no guarantees that month is
going to be populated with something.
This exclamation mark is
basically telling TypeScript.
It's telling the compiler there is some
other process by which this will be
populated.
We can rely on that.
When it comes to the type checking,
assume this will get initialized and
type orm is going to take care of that for
us.
Then we have a min and a max.
I've auto imported temperature
from our types package.
Remember we exported this type.
I want to do the same thing with max.
Min and max, and these both also need
a definite assignment operator or,
yeah, operator.
And we're gonna add
column to those as well.
Now, there is something special
we're going to have to do here,
because all we've stated
here is a type of type orm.
Sorry, we have a complex type here and
all we've done is say max
is this compound field.
It's like this object.
And SQLite,
the database we're using here doesn't have
a column type that matches exactly this.
So we have to do some work
to see to make sure that
the ORM knows how to persist this thing.
And in order for that to work.
We have to create the value
object on the server side.
It's going to look a lot like this.
So I'm going to copy the contents of this
file and we're going to go into this
values folder and this is where
we're going to create temperature.
And I'm just going to use
this as the starting point.
So just so you can see the file tree,
it's in the source values temperature.
And we'll
just do this,
we'll call
this iTemperature.
It's being used up, implements, and
because this is a value object.
Right?
This is not going to have an id.
We're going to get rid of this.
It's not an entity,
this is a value object.
And we see that we're incorrectly
implementing this interface.
So here we really, really want to
keep our API representation and
our server representation aligned.
We need a number and
we need a unit that's either C or F.
So we need value and we need unit.
And it's going to be a string.
But really we want temperature unit.
We already defined this, right?
We got that nice union type with the C or
F.
And this is coming right
out of our Zod schema and
it's sort of trickling through and
we can get rid of this.
So now we have a temperature class.
And what we're going to see is that when
this gets persisted in the database,
it'll sort of be embedded with its
own columns and some prefixing so
that it doesn't end up being sort
of flattened in the column layout.
But when we're working with this in
memory, it's going to be this nice nested
object and it just feels like
a nice value object there.
So now we're going to grab this class and
instead of referring to this
temperature as just sort of like the type,
we want to refer to the entity.
And so
be careful when you pick from these two.
This up here is just the type information.
This in value temperature,
this is the class.
And one more last thing
we have to do is this.
And what we're doing with
this here is we're saying,
when you need to instantiate a type for
this.
When you're reading a row from a database,
you need to create this temperature
object that we just defined.
This is the function you
call to create that thing.
So now we have our monthly temperature
range, we should be able to build.
There it goes.
Now we have one last thing we have to do,
and that's associating with a location.
We're going to do that with
another annotation here from.
Gosh, it's not belongs to.
What the heck is is.
It's one.
One to many to one,
that's what they call it.
Or no, sorry, one to many.
One to many is what we want.
So this is a one to many relationship
between the monthly temperature range.
Let me make sure location's
coming from the right place.
Should be the entity, not the types
package that you're getting this from.
It needs to be definitely assigned like
anything else you should see class,
location, not to be confused with
window location or anything like that.
We need arguments here.
This is where we can look at some
other examples that exist here.
Let's see.
Plant has one of these I think.
Look at this.
We've got a many to one.
So we need something to instantiate
the record as we had before and
then some way to fetch how
this relationship works.
Here we go back to monthly temp location,
we've already imported it and
then the last thing we need
is given a location like
what's the other side of
this relationship and
we can wire that up on the other side.
So for now let's just say it's location,
monthly temps, something like that.
Now this field doesn't exist yet.
We're about to create
it on the other side.
So we're going to go over to location and
say many to one.
Actually I think this
side is the one to many.
This is going to be monthly temps,
monthly temperature range.
We need definite assignment.
We need to make sure
this gets imported and
this will need something
like range location.
So we've made this side happy.
Just so
you can see the two components here.
This top one is create the record and
then this one is walk the association.
Right, like how do I from
a range get location and
then on the other side we're going to need
from a location how do I get the range?
So we've got a one to many here.
Sorry, this we're going to change
to like a many to one, right?
So we've got the location and
then this should be actually should be
like this monthly temps we have many and
on the location side we have
one location going back.
So what we've done in summary here,
we've set up the has-many relationship.
We have a value object of temperature.
We have this monthly
temperature record and
where we're getting really
well positioned to incorporate
this in the API contract for
the temperature calculator.
Let's just do one more build to make
sure that this all works great.
I'll make a git commit here.
So we're going to call
it DDD1 monthly monthly
temperature ranges.
So if you want to pull down
the DDD progress branch,
you'll get all the code changes that
I just made and it should work.
The next thing we're going to do is
turn our attention to getting that
dropdown working with with
the list of locations and
then we can incorporate this sort
of temperature checking logic.
So if you try to run the app,
if you run NPM run dev in the project,
you'll see that entity, mentor.
Metadata for
location monthly temps was not found.
One last thing we need to do here.
There is sort of the entry point for
the way our server
deals with different
entities in our database and
that is in our data source TS file.
And in here you're going to see we've got
a list of entities important to know.
I think this is the full set of
things that need to be pulled
from different tables and
it'll include the value objects as well.
So we're going to add
monthly temperature range,
making sure we pick the correct
one here and temperature format.
It hit save and
this error should go away unless we've.
We need a primary key here.
I have a good solution for that.
What we can do is extend
from this base class.
So if you look at some
of these other types,
you can see I extend peashoot entity
plant and I have this constructor.
This will take care of our.
Our primary key for us.
The conventional way to do this would
be to add one more column to monthly
temperature range like this id and
we would say this is auto incrementing
primary generated column.
And you could say type is a UUID or
something like that.
Or I think you can just do uuid, yep.
But we have a base class that'll
take care of this for us and
give us a nice prefix for this URL.
This alone should be enough
to make this work here.
But let's borrow this
concept that we see
elsewhere in our code base.
Something's weird here, but,
We're gonna implement it.
We're going to
fix our imports here and
we should.
So I just deleted this interface here
just to keep things going smooth.
But something odd where it's treating
this as both the class and an interface.
And still I think this is basically like a
little caching error that I have locally.
You shouldn't have to do that step,
but we'll factor that back in.
I'm going to just copy
what we have from plant.
And what we're doing here is we're
basically picking a nice ID prefix
for this.
So we're gonna just call it mtr for
monthly temperature range.
And looks like that didn't
quite make it happy yet.
Data type object and
monthly temperature range unit is not
supported by the SQLITE database.
So monthly temperature range unit.
Unit belongs on temperature.
Let's check that out and
see if that makes sense.
So we've got entities,
we've got values temperature unit.
We can call this text.
And now it starts working.
So temperature range unit.
It's basically saying, I don't have a
column type for this union type of C or F.
We can just say, look,
store this as a string.
Great.
Now we could create these temperature
ranges and store them in our database,
which is exactly what
we're going to do next.